# Greenpeace Planet 4 Child Theme for GP Netherlands

Child theme for the Planet 4 Wordpress project.
The related master theme’s code lives at:

https://github.com/greenpeace/planet4-master-theme.

Please check the master theme code for more information.


---

# GPNL specific development instructions

# Commit guidelines
Included is a githook *(commit-msg)* which is run to ensure standardized commit messages. [Conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#summary) is used as the convention.
## In short:
```
[optional 'maintenance' type][type]([optional scope])[breaking change]: [description]

[optional body]
```
Section | Explanation
----|----
'Maintenance' type | `Revert` `Merge`
Type | 	`build` `docs` `feat` `fix` `perf` `refactor` `style` `test` `chore`
Scope | Optional explanation of the scope of the change ie `ux` `ui` `admin` etc
Breaking change | When a breaking change is introduced use `!` after the commit type
Description | 10-52 char explanation what the commit does
Body | Optionally more axplanation on the *what* and *why*

The following commits correlate to [SemVer](https://semver.org/#summary) version changes.

Commit | SemVer change
---| ---
commit with `!` | Major version change, ie 2.x.x
commit type `feat` | Minor version change, ie x.2.x
commit with type `fix` | Patch version change, ie x.x.2

## Build process

### Development
To watch the files run `yarn start`.
### Build for production
To build files for production run `yarn build`.
### Linting
Linters for both CSS and JS are available both for linting and fixing.  
`yarn lint` `yarn lint:fix` for both CSS and JS  
`yarn lint:[css/js]` for either CSS or JS  
`yarn lint:[css/js]:fix` for either CSS or JS
### Release preparation
Release steps are largely automated, this includes: changing branching to loosely follow gitflow, generating assets generating changelogs and tagging the new release. Only (purposely) manual step left is pushing the branches and tags to remote.
Changelogs are autogenerated by `standard-version` if the commit guidelines are followed.  
`yarn release` for running releases
`yarn dryrelease` for checking what the impact of a release is  
CircleCI is used as the CI automation. Steps for releasing new versions are in the [Planet4 Documentation](https://app.gitbook.com/@greenpeace/s/planet4/nro-customization/deployment)
